PAUL LEWIS: So with
the site mostly done
from a visual point
of view, I wanted
to go back and take a
look at accessibility.
Now I'm not an
accessibility expert.
I know it much less than
I understand other things,
like performance
or CSS or whatever.
So I wanted to kind of
show it because it's
a journey I'm kind of
going on to kind of improve
my understanding in this area.
And so I at least want to show
you the changes that I made,
or at least kind of how I
checked some of the changes
that I made on the site.
So on screen, I have-- I'm
going to enable a VoiceOver.
VOICEOVER: Welcome to
OS X. VoiceOver is on.
System Preferences,
Accessibility window,
Help button.
PAUL LEWIS: OK,
it's definitely on,
because it's
talking at me, which
is kind of what you're hoping--
VOICEOVER: You are
currently on the button.
To click this button,
press Control-Option-Space.
PAUL LEWIS: OK, I don't
want to do anything.
Don't talk.
I'm talking.
You don't talk.
Stop it.
OK, what I'm going to do is I'm
going to dive into the page.
And then this is before
I made my changes.
OK, all right.
VOICEOVER: Chrome, Chrome Dev
Summit 2-0-1-6 window, footer,
vi-- vi-- visited link.
Chrome Dev Summit.
PAUL LEWIS: OK,
it'll talk again.
It has a thing about talking.
VOICEOVER: You are currently
on a link inside of a banner.
To click this link, press
Control-Option-Space.
The help tag is Go to Home page.
PAUL LEWIS: OK, Go to Home
page, seems like a good thing.
OK, so to keep this
video brief, I'm
just going to kind of show
only a couple of changes
that I've made.
But you can
extrapolate that I've
made changes to
all the templates
around the site off the back
of this, all being well.
Let me see if I got this right.
VOICEOVER: Navigation,
four items.
PAUL LEWIS: Oh no,
this is the old build.
Oh dear, let's have a look.
VOICEOVER: System--
term-- npm run build.
Chrome-- Chrome Dev Summit
2-0-1-- banner three items,
visited link, Chrome Dev
Summit, list four items.
Schedule--
PAUL LEWIS: OK,
this is the old one.
Right--
VOICEOVER: Chrome Dev Summit.
PAUL LEWIS: Yep.
I know you're going to talk.
I'm going to go
across to the list.
VOICEOVER: List four items.
PAUL LEWIS: Now it's not a list.
This is the thing,
it's actually a nav.
VOICEOVER: You are currently
on a list inside of a banner.
PAUL LEWIS: See, I'm not.
I'm not.
I'm in a navigation,
admittedly inside of a banner.
I'll take that up.
So that's one thing
that isn't right.
And actually when we
look at the source code
in a moment-- in fact, let
me just switch off-- no,
I'll show you the
other bit as well.
So we can use-- it's like
Control-Left, Right arrows
to kind of skip
through elements.
VOICEOVER: Visited end of list.
PAUL LEWIS: End of list, OK.
VOICEOVER: Visited link.
Watch the live stream now.
PAUL LEWIS: Seem good.
VOICEOVER: End of-- heading
level one, Chrome Dev Summit.
PAUL LEWIS: Also seems good.
VOICEOVER:
Complimentary one item.
PAUL LEWIS: Not complimentary.
VOICEOVER: Connect
with Chrome engineers
and other leading
developers for a two day
exploration of building
beautiful and performant
experiences.
PAUL LEWIS: Sounds good.
VOICEOVER: End of complimentary.
PAUL LEWIS: Not a complimentary.
VOICEOVER: Visited link.
Schedule will take a
look over the agenda.
PAUL LEWIS: Feels
like you should
be giving me a little bit of
a gap there, like a full stop.
VOICEOVER: Visited link.
Code lab, check out our
step by step coding guides.
Visited link.
Location Chrome Dev
Summit is at S-F-J-A-Z-Z.
PAUL LEWIS: S-F-J-A-Z-Z-- not
really, it's at "SF Jazz."
And I understand why
a screen reader--
VOICEOVER: You are currently on
a link inside of HTML content.
To click this link, press
Control-Option-Space.
PAUL LEWIS: I can understand
why a screen reader
wouldn't understand
that it's SFJAZZ,
that it would think it's
S-F-J-A-Z-Z, or "zed-zed"
for me because English.
So what I will do is
I will temporarily
switch off VoiceOver.
Let's do that.
VOICEOVER: System--
system preference--
PAUL LEWIS: Quick.
Oh no, no, no, no, no, stop it.
OK, ooh-- ooh.
So there's a small chance it can
be a little bit stressful when
it's talking at you,
especially when you're
trying to record a video
explaining-- yeah, right.
Let me move the build on.
I think the build
I want is that one.
Yeah, it has labels
and what not.
And we'll do a fresh build.
So now you can see,
when I do that--
and let's see if the
code is there as well.
Let's go and find.
Where would be a good place?
I think the masthead
is certainly one place.
You can see the
masthead graphic,
which is that SVG
debacle-- let's
call it what it is, the
debacle that was-- has an ARIA
label of now masthead.
And then I've added this
masthead image title.
So that's going to be
something that should hopefully
be announced as well.
Things like titles, that's
gone on as well in the head,
maybe, or in the header.
Did I bring that-- it's in
the header-- in the header.
Or is it head?
Which one is it?
Whoa, hang on.
That's weird.
Why are they saying
the same thing?
That's not the right thing.
Or has it got itself confused?
It might have got
itself confused.
OK, I'll tell you what we'll do.
We'll just look at it in
the source code of the page.
That'll do it.
Instead, we now have a
nav called menu__nav.
And instead of there being
a list, they're just divs.
And because this is set to
display flex, this is fine.
They're individual
items, each with anchor.
I probably don't even
need the divs actually.
I might just remove
those and put the class
straight onto the anchor.
That would probably be
even tidier, less markup.
I might just do
that today in fact.
What an idea.
And then here's another
little thing that I did,
which I just want to show.
This is after a chat
with-- let me zoom in--
after a chat with Jake
Archibald, my colleague.
Hopefully many of you know Jake.
If you don't, he's
one of my colleagues.
I said that.
So now Chrome Dev Summit
is at SF, and then Jazz,
in lower case.
And then this in between
it, you might be thinking,
what on earth is that?
The answer is, it's
the Unicode character
for a nonvisible space so that
it renders as SFJAZZ together,
but it's actually
pronounced as SF Jazz.
So we're kind of doing
the visual thing as well
as the screen reader thing.
And then I use a
CSS text transform
to bring that all
to uppercase, which
is why it's wrapped
in a span you see.
That will do the trick.
Now with that said, I can now
switch on VoiceOver once more.
It's going to talk at us again.
VOICEOVER: Welcome to
OS X. VoiceOver is on.
System Preferences,
Accessibility window,
Help button.
PAUL LEWIS: OK, and we'll start
hopefully at the top again.
VOICEOVER: Schedule,
select visited link.
Chrome Dev Summit, banner
three-- navigation four items.
PAUL LEWIS: Navigation
four items, better.
VOICEOVER: Visited link,
visited link, location.
PAUL LEWIS: Fine.
VOICEOVER: End of navigation.
Visited link.
Watch the live stream now.
End of banner.
Heading level one.
PAUL LEWIS: And?
VOICEOVER: Masthead, Darin
Fisher delivering the keynote
at Chrome Dev Summit 2-0-1-5.
Image.
PAUL LEWIS: I would have
said 20-15, but whatever.
VOICEOVER: Connect
with Chrome engineers
and other leading developers
for a two day expo.
PAUL LEWIS: Yep.
VOICEOVER: Visited link.
Schedule.
Take a look over the agenda.
PAUL LEWIS: That's because
I used an after there
to put a full stop in.
VOICEOVER: Visited link.
Code labs.
Check out our step by
step coding guides.
PAUL LEWIS: And that after
has an opacity of zero.
And--
VOICEOVER: Visited link.
Location.
Chrome Dev Summit
is at "SF Jazz."
PAUL LEWIS: Yes.
VOICEOVER: Visual--
System Preferences.
PAUL LEWIS: Right.
So basically that's
what I've been doing
is I've been going through,
making sure that there's
Tab focus.
And when you Tab between things
or use the focus shifting
in VoiceOver-- I'm not even
sure what that's probably
called-- that it announces
the things that I expect
it to announce in
the way that I would
expect them to be announced.
So most of the time it's
a case of putting titles
on things or alternate
images, or things
like the masthead where
there isn't a-- like I'm
using multiple elements
to kind of achieve
the effect of whatever.
I'm having to use ARIA
role, or just role
equals image for
example, and then
ARIA label equals, and then
what I would put in an alt text
should it have been an image.
The other thing, let me just see
if I can switch it on quickly.
If not, I will show
you how one does it.
Yes, so it's not
switched on on here.
So let's go to chrome://flags,
and Developer Tools
experiments.
We'll enable that.
Relaunch.
And now inside of the
Dev Tools settings,
we have the experiments.
And there's an
accessibility inspection.
And it is always
worth pointing out
that these experiments
could be dangerous.
But let's make that bigger.
They could be dangerous
and may require a restart.
And they could
cause other issues.
So switch them on
at your own peril.
But anyway, I'll switch on
the accessibly inspection.
And then let's take
our inspect here.
We'll do that.
And there's now an
Accessibility tab down here.
And you can see the
name, which is location,
Chrome Dev Summit is at SFJAZZ,
contents, and what its role is.
So you can very
quickly, if you just
want to check without
actually switching on a screen
reader or anything like that,
you can have a do with a that
and switch that on and
play around with that.
And hopefully it will tell
you all the right kinds
of things or labels.
And let me just try
that on the masthead.
Let's see, I think it's
on masthead itself maybe.
Well maybe the masthead
graphic-- masthead graphic.
There we are.
Role of image, and ARIA
label of what we'd expect.
And as you see, it bears out
that when I actually use,
at least VoiceOver
anyway, that I'm getting
the right kinds of things.
I know I still have more
work to do in this area
because the side nav, I
will need to put on inert.
And if not heard
of inert, we will
link to Rob Dodson's inert
polyfill A11lycast, which
you should definitely watch,
is a very straightforward way
of saying, this thing is
not visible right now.
And I'll probably
need that if I'm
going to do a sliding
in and out side nav.
And in fact he actually talked
about a previous side nav
I'd built in that episode.
And also I need to find
a way of making sure
that the tab focus is sort
of locked into the side nav
when it's out, because
it's kind of like a modal.
Anyway, all that and
more you will discover
if you watch A11lycasts.
So, as always, check
out the code on GitHub.
You can see hello to
me in the comments.
I've been responding to a lot.
If I've missed your
comment, I'm very sorry.
Keep trying.
You can say hello to me
on Twitter @AeroTwist.
And I will, of course,
see you in the next entry.
Yes, that's when I'll be back.
Brilliant.
Have a good day.
[MUSIC PLAYING]